README.md, before:

# Batch Processing I/O Driver Template for Xentara

This repository contains skeleton code for a Xentara driver with the following features:

Connection oriented | Batch processing | Polymorphic I/O Points
:-----------------: | :--------------: | :--------------------:
NO                  | YES              | NO

This driver template requires the Xentara development environment, as well as a Xentara licence. You can get a Xentara
licence in the [Xentara Online Shop](https://www.xentara.io/product/xentara-for-industrial-automation/).

The documentation for Xentara can be found at https://docs.xentara.io/xentara

This driver template uses the Xentara Utility Library, as well as the Xentara Plugin Framework. Docs can be found here:

https://docs.xentara.io/xentara-utils/  
https://docs.xentara.io/xentara-plugin/

## Xentara I/O Component Template

*(See [I/O Components](https://docs.xentara.io/xentara/xentara_io_components.html) in the [Xentara documentation](https://docs.xentara.io/xentara/))*

[src/TemplateIoComponent.hpp](src/TemplateIoComponent.hpp)  
[src/TemplateIoComponent.cpp](src/TemplateIoComponent.cpp)

The I/O component template provides template code for I/O components that can never be disconnected or reconnected to the computer.
Such components are either entirely stateless, or require a single initialization and deinitialization call. This generally includes
three types of components:

- I/O components that are physically located inside the computer (PCIe expansion boards, SPI or I2C components etc.),
- I/O components that are permanently attached to the computer, and cannot be removed or reattached without shutting down, or
- virtual I/O components, that do not represent physical devices at all (simulators, A/I models, computational units etc.).

## Xentara I/O Batch Template

*(See [I/O Batches](https://docs.xentara.io/xentara/xentara_io_batches.html) in the [Xentara documentation](https://docs.xentara.io/xentara/))*

[src/TemplateIoBatch.hpp](src/TemplateIoBatch.hpp)  
[src/TemplateIoBatch.cpp](src/TemplateIoBatch.cpp)

The I/O batch template provides template code for a batch communications request that can read and write multiple I/O points at the same time.

The template code has the following features:

- All I/O points attached to an I/O batch share common [Xentara attributes](https://docs.xentara.io/xentara/xentara_element_members.html#xentara_attributes)
  for update time, [quality](https://docs.xentara.io/xentara/xentara_io_points.html#xentara_io_points_quality) and error code, which are maintained
  centrally in the I/O batch. These attributes are then inherited by the I/O points, so that they can be accessed as attributes of the I/O point as well.
- The I/O batch publishes a [Xentara task](https://docs.xentara.io/xentara/xentara_element_members.html#xentara_tasks) called *read*,
  which acquires the current values of all I/O points from the I/O component using a read command.
- The I/O batch publishe a [Xentara event](https://docs.xentara.io/xentara/xentara_element_members.html#xentara_events) to signal changes
  to the [quality](https://docs.xentara.io/xentara/xentara_io_points.html#xentara_io_points_quality). This event
  is inherited by the I/O points, so that it can be accessed through the I/O points as well.
- The I/O batch publishes a [Xentara task](https://docs.xentara.io/xentara/xentara_element_members.html#xentara_tasks) called *write*,
  that checks which outputs have pending output values, and writes those outputs to the I/O component using a write command (if there are any).
- The I/O batch publishes [Xentara events](https://docs.xentara.io/xentara/xentara_element_members.html#xentara_events) to signal if
  a write command was sent, or if a write error occurred. These events are *not* inherited by the I/O points, who have their own individual events instead.
  This is done so that the events of the individual outputs can be fired individually for only those outputs that were actually written.

## Xentara I/O Point Templates

*(See [I/O Points](https://docs.xentara.io/xentara/xentara_io_points.html) in the [Xentara documentation](https://docs.xentara.io/xentara/))*

### Input Template

[src/TemplateInput.hpp](src/TemplateInput.hpp)  
[src/TemplateInput.cpp](src/TemplateInput.cpp)  

The input template provides template code for a read-only I/O point whose value is read using an I/O batch.

The template code has the following features:

- The input inherits [Xentara attributes](https://docs.xentara.io/xentara/xentara_element_members.html#xentara_attributes)
  for update time, [quality](https://docs.xentara.io/xentara/xentara_io_points.html#xentara_io_points_quality) and error code from the
  I/O batch, and shares them with all other I/O points belonging to the same I/O batch.
- The input publishes [Xentara events](https://docs.xentara.io/xentara/xentara_element_members.html#xentara_events) to signal changes
  to the value and [quality](https://docs.xentara.io/xentara/xentara_io_points.html#xentara_io_points_quality). The event to signal
  a change in quality is inherited from the I/O batch, and shared with all other I/O points belonging to the same I/O batch.

### Output Template

[src/TemplateOutput.hpp](src/TemplateOutput.hpp)  
[src/TemplateOutput.cpp](src/TemplateOutput.cpp)

The output template provides template code for a read/write I/O point whose value must be read and written using individual commands for each output.

The template code has the following features:

- The input and output values are handled entirely separately. A written output value is not reflected in the input value until
  it has been read back from the I/O component by the I/O batch. This is necessary because the I/O component might reject or
  modify the written value.
- The value of the output is not sent to the I/O component directly when it is written, but placed in a queue to be written by the I/O batch.
- The output inherits [Xentara attributes](https://docs.xentara.io/xentara/xentara_element_members.html#xentara_attributes)
  for update time, [quality](https://docs.xentara.io/xentara/xentara_io_points.html#xentara_io_points_quality) and error code from the
  I/O batch, and shares them with all other I/O points belonging to the same I/O batch.
- The output publishes [Xentara events](https://docs.xentara.io/xentara/xentara_element_members.html#xentara_events) to signal changes
  to the value and [quality](https://docs.xentara.io/xentara/xentara_io_points.html#xentara_io_points_quality). The event to signal
  a change in quality is inherited from the I/O batch, and shared with all other I/O points belonging to the same I/O batch.
- The output publishes [Xentara events](https://docs.xentara.io/xentara/xentara_element_members.html#xentara_events) to signal if
  a new value was written, or if a write error occurred.

Commit message:

Added support for generation source code documentation using Doxygen

README.md, after:

# Batch Processing I/O Driver Template for Xentara

This repository contains skeleton code for a Xentara driver with the following features:

Connection oriented | Batch processing | Polymorphic I/O Points
:-----------------: | :--------------: | :--------------------:
NO                  | YES              | NO

## Prerequisites

This driver template requires the Xentara development environment, as well as a Xentara licence. You can get a Xentara
licence in the [Xentara Online Shop](https://www.xentara.io/product/xentara-for-industrial-automation/).

The documentation for Xentara can be found at https://docs.xentara.io/xentara.

This driver template uses the Xentara Utility Library, as well as the Xentara Plugin Framework. The corresponding documentation can be found here:

https://docs.xentara.io/xentara-utils/  
https://docs.xentara.io/xentara-plugin/

## Build Environment

The repository include a [CMakeLists.txt](CMakeLists.txt) file for use with [CMake](https://cmake.org/), which allows you to build the source code
out of the box, as long as the Xentara development environment is installed. If you whish to use a different build system, you must generate the
necessary build configuration file yourself.

## Source Code Documentation

The source code in this repository is documented using [Doxygen](https://doxygen.nl/) comments. If you have Doxygen installed, you can
generate detailed documentation for all classes, functions etc., including a TODO list. To generate the documentation using CMake, just
build the target *docs* by executing the following command in your [build directory](https://cmake.org/cmake/help/latest/manual/cmake.1.html#generate-a-project-buildsystem):

~~~sh
cmake --build . --target docs
~~~

This will generate HTML documentation in the subdirectory *docs/html*.

## Xentara I/O Component Template

*(See [I/O Components](https://docs.xentara.io/xentara/xentara_io_components.html) in the [Xentara documentation](https://docs.xentara.io/xentara/))*

[src/TemplateIoComponent.hpp](src/TemplateIoComponent.hpp)  
[src/TemplateIoComponent.cpp](src/TemplateIoComponent.cpp)

The I/O component template provides template code for I/O components that can never be disconnected or reconnected to the computer.
Such components are either entirely stateless, or require a single initialization and deinitialization call. This generally includes
three types of components:

- I/O components that are physically located inside the computer (PCIe expansion boards, SPI or I2C components etc.),
- I/O components that are permanently attached to the computer, and cannot be removed or reattached without shutting down, or
- virtual I/O components, that do not represent physical devices at all (simulators, A/I models, computational units etc.).

## Xentara I/O Batch Template

*(See [I/O Batches](https://docs.xentara.io/xentara/xentara_io_batches.html) in the [Xentara documentation](https://docs.xentara.io/xentara/))*

[src/TemplateIoBatch.hpp](src/TemplateIoBatch.hpp)  
[src/TemplateIoBatch.cpp](src/TemplateIoBatch.cpp)

The I/O batch template provides template code for a batch communications request that can read and write multiple I/O points at the same time.

The template code has the following features:

- All I/O points attached to an I/O batch share common [Xentara attributes](https://docs.xentara.io/xentara/xentara_element_members.html#xentara_attributes)
  for update time, [quality](https://docs.xentara.io/xentara/xentara_io_points.html#xentara_io_points_quality) and error code, which are maintained
  centrally in the I/O batch. These attributes are then inherited by the I/O points, so that they can be accessed as attributes of the I/O point as well.
- The I/O batch publishes a [Xentara task](https://docs.xentara.io/xentara/xentara_element_members.html#xentara_tasks) called *read*,
  which acquires the current values of all I/O points from the I/O component using a read command.
- The I/O batch publishe a [Xentara event](https://docs.xentara.io/xentara/xentara_element_members.html#xentara_events) to signal changes
  to the [quality](https://docs.xentara.io/xentara/xentara_io_points.html#xentara_io_points_quality). This event
  is inherited by the I/O points, so that it can be accessed through the I/O points as well.
- The I/O batch publishes a [Xentara task](https://docs.xentara.io/xentara/xentara_element_members.html#xentara_tasks) called *write*,
  that checks which outputs have pending output values, and writes those outputs to the I/O component using a write command (if there are any).
- The I/O batch publishes [Xentara events](https://docs.xentara.io/xentara/xentara_element_members.html#xentara_events) to signal if
  a write command was sent, or if a write error occurred. These events are *not* inherited by the I/O points, who have their own individual events instead.
  This is done so that the events of the individual outputs can be fired individually for only those outputs that were actually written.

## Xentara I/O Point Templates

*(See [I/O Points](https://docs.xentara.io/xentara/xentara_io_points.html) in the [Xentara documentation](https://docs.xentara.io/xentara/))*

### Input Template

[src/TemplateInput.hpp](src/TemplateInput.hpp)  
[src/TemplateInput.cpp](src/TemplateInput.cpp)  

The input template provides template code for a read-only I/O point whose value is read using an I/O batch.

The template code has the following features:

- The input inherits [Xentara attributes](https://docs.xentara.io/xentara/xentara_element_members.html#xentara_attributes)
  for update time, [quality](https://docs.xentara.io/xentara/xentara_io_points.html#xentara_io_points_quality) and error code from the
  I/O batch, and shares them with all other I/O points belonging to the same I/O batch.
- The input publishes [Xentara events](https://docs.xentara.io/xentara/xentara_element_members.html#xentara_events) to signal changes
  to the value and [quality](https://docs.xentara.io/xentara/xentara_io_points.html#xentara_io_points_quality). The event to signal
  a change in quality is inherited from the I/O batch, and shared with all other I/O points belonging to the same I/O batch.

### Output Template

[src/TemplateOutput.hpp](src/TemplateOutput.hpp)  
[src/TemplateOutput.cpp](src/TemplateOutput.cpp)

The output template provides template code for a read/write I/O point whose value must be read and written using individual commands for each output.

The template code has the following features:

- The input and output values are handled entirely separately. A written output value is not reflected in the input value until
  it has been read back from the I/O component by the I/O batch. This is necessary because the I/O component might reject or
  modify the written value.
- The value of the output is not sent to the I/O component directly when it is written, but placed in a queue to be written by the I/O batch.
- The output inherits [Xentara attributes](https://docs.xentara.io/xentara/xentara_element_members.html#xentara_attributes)
  for update time, [quality](https://docs.xentara.io/xentara/xentara_io_points.html#xentara_io_points_quality) and error code from the
  I/O batch, and shares them with all other I/O points belonging to the same I/O batch.
- The output publishes [Xentara events](https://docs.xentara.io/xentara/xentara_element_members.html#xentara_events) to signal changes
  to the value and [quality](https://docs.xentara.io/xentara/xentara_io_points.html#xentara_io_points_quality). The event to signal
  a change in quality is inherited from the I/O batch, and shared with all other I/O points belonging to the same I/O batch.
- The output publishes [Xentara events](https://docs.xentara.io/xentara/xentara_element_members.html#xentara_events) to signal if
  a new value was written, or if a write error occurred.
